# 8/22/2019

### Attendees:

* Rod Bogart
* Joseph Goldstone
* Larry Gritz
* Cary Phillips
* Nick Porcino
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Kimball Thurston

### Agenda:

* Release 2.4.0
* Other items

### Discussion

* Windows builds are running, but tests are failing.

* Windows test failure appears to be a “device timeout” in IlmImfTest,
  not sure how to proceed. Might be an Azure job setting?

* Release version should be named v2.4.0-beta.1

* What to do with PR #502? Alignment issue, but it’s only in the test
  suite. Probably ok.

* Need to update release notes with recent commits. Kimball suggests
  the GitHub project git-chglog.

* Still need a security expert. Kimball suggests Dan Hutchinson at
  Foundry, who was a security expert in the past.

* Florian is enthusiastic about contributing new test images. Need to
  decide what we need to show off. Florian suggests carefully
  calibrated images to show what a properly exposed image is.
  
* Rod noted that ACES has reference images.

* Another application for these images: calibration. Need reference
  for monitor calibration.

* Joseph: an image that can help answer the question, “Does this look
  right?” image. Joseph described a past project that involved $100 at
  Safeway: Pepto Bismol pink, etc. Everyone knows what those colors
  are.

* Also need images for a performance suite.

* Also need relevant survey of metadata.

* We need a document that says what stuff is called, conventions.

* Outstanding issue: PR #531, the DreamWorks Lossy Compression
  license. Is the change sufficience? It's a dual license: pick which
  license the user wants to use.
  
* Joseph: Half as a separate library? Support in GCC and Clang for
  16-bit float? Would there be a performance gain to use standard?
  Yes. But Half does very specific rounding. With float16 you can do
  different rounding.  Could use operators to make Half and float16
  look the same.
