# 8/29/2019

### Attendees:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* John Mertic
* Kimball Thurston
* Peter Hillman

### Agenda:

* Release 2.4.0

### Discussion

* Cary still has a problem building PyIlmBase on his mac, but it's
  most likely a local problem with the installation of boost::python.

* The documentation should reference the Azure build scripts as a
  working example manifestation of the proper sequence of steps for
  installing and building.

* The CHANGES.md file lists a summary of changed, followed by a
  listing of all commits, PR's, and Issues. Is this necessary? Only
  the summary will appear on the Releases page. Who cares if the
  CHANGES.md file is verbose; sure, you can query this information
  directly via the GitHub page, but it still seems convenient to list
  everything out, and at the very least, it's not hurting anyone.

* Decision was made to turn off floating-point exception handling by
  default; it doesn't work at all under FreeBSD, because signals
  happen asynchronously.

* All tests should pass on Azure now, although the Azure windows build
  does not yet include PyIlmBase because of boost issues.

* No one on the board voiced concerns about the DWA Lossy Compression
  license changes. When Steve Winslow returns, he will re-run the
  license scan, and then John will put a new exception request to the
  board.

* The release can proceed independently of the license issues.

* CII Best Practices badge progress is at 95%. 

* Dan Hutchinson from Foundry responded with security/CVE guidance,
  need to schedule a follow-up discussion, when he's available.

* Kimball will look into adding an option to run the test under
  valgrind. The CII badge suggests dynamic analysis; this should
  suffice for that.
