# 10/03/2019

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Rod Bogart
* Larry Gritz
* Peter Hillman
* Kimball Thurston
* Nick Porcino
* Joseph Goldstone
* Carol Payne

### Discussion

* Discussion of the project mission statement.

* The mission statement should give some bar for how to proceed in the
  future.  Our philosophy: “Keep it simple.” However, the library as
  it is is not simple.

* Are we the keepers of best practices?

* Keep format modern and relevant.  An example issue: Should we
  support integer data?

* “Provide a specification and reference implementation of the motion
  picture industry's preferred image file format for high dynamic
  range linear scene-referred image data.”

* Should focus on “Content Creation”

* Openexr-images repo, reference images.  Used by OIIO as test images.

* Rather than storing a bunch of 4k images, better to provide a
  program that generates the images on the fly.

* Start with a reasonable image, then add noise to it, see how
  compression works.

* Foundry just advertised increases in OpenEXR speed, they obviously
  take performance seriously.

* Nick: whenever I export an image from photoshop, I wonder if the
  gamut has changed, etc.

* How quantify is the image of the expect quality?

* What is the quality of my image? Tests.

* Should the library include utilities/operators/techniques that check
  the quality of an image?

* We are now in a different eco system now from when OpenEXR was first
  written. We can refer to the existence of tools and techniques that
  didn’t exist.

* Before submitting for project adoption, we need to address
  outstanding SonarCloud bugs.

