# 5/2/2019

### Attending:
* John Mertic
* Cary Phillips
* Rod Bogart
* Peter Hillman
* Larry Gritz
* Daniel Heckenberg

### Personal introductions:

* John Mertic: Linux Foundation - Director of Program Management. Help getting project up and going, helping with issues and concerns. 
* Peter Hillman: Weta, worked on OpenEXR deep stuff.
* Cary Phillips: ILM R&D Supervisor, miscellaneous contributions to IlmBase. 
* Larry Gritz: Sony Pictures Imageworks, experience as a user of OpenEXR, lead for OpenImageIO (the major client of OpenEXR, sits between the library and most users).
* Rod Bogart: One of the originators with Florian Kainz and Drew Hess. Involvement has been on and off, mostly off lately. Vice chair of the Academy’s ACES project.
* Daniel Heckenberg: ASWF TAC chair.

### Discussion:

* John: We are the Technical Steering Committee:

  * Set direction, features, roadmap.
  * Issues, questions, 
  * Serves the community, not necessarily an overlord.
  * Has the help of the TAC

* Need to set up a TSC subdirectory in the github repo, to hold meeting notes, etc.

* There are three github repos:
  - Openexr
  - Openexr-website
  - Openexr-images (big test images, nice to not pollute the main repo with them) 

* Other contributors:
  - Kimball Thurston - Weta
  - Nick Rasmussen - ILM
  - Nick Porcino - Occulus, formerly ILM 
  - Jonathan Stone - Lucasfilm/MaterialX

* ASWF member organization have obligation to contribute to projects.

* Larry: OCIO has a separate role for TSC chair. We can be creative with how we divide the roles. Few things come to formal votes.

* Cary elected TSC chair

* Action items:
  - Set up aswf.io mailing lists; send message asking recipients to sign up over there; this lets us know who the community is.
  - Set up private TSC alias.
  - Move github repo to ASWF (contents will be unchanged, address will not change)
  - John: contact Steve Winslow about code scanning, make sure license compliance in order.  
  - Cary: Add permissions to github repos




