# 11/15/2019

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Kimball Thurston
* Peter Hillman
* Nick Porcino
* Larry Gritz
* Rod Bogart

### Discussion:

* Ready to move the repo to https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation

* We prefer “OpenEXR” over “openexr”, even though it makes for
  confusing directory names, given the sub-module called OpenEXR.

* But... should we consider doing the IlmBase/Imath repo reorg at the
  same time? Postpone the port to pybind11 to eliminate
  boost/boost-python? No consensus arrived at yet.

* Cary will follow up with a written proposal to openexr-dev.

* Discussed how the repo README.md and openexr.com refer to the
  ancillary repos, openexr-images in particular. The existence of the
  image repo should be made clear.

* Rod will attempt an alternative layout of the README/website
  information.

* Threading/thread pools: Larry will follow up with SideFX over
  whether the OpenEXR v2.3.0 threadpool changes adequately address
  their immediate concerns.

* Longer term, Larry will follow up on the thread pool issue across
  all ASWF projects.

* OpenEXR has simple needs, we shouldn’t complicate it. We would pefer
  not to make OpenEXR depend on TBB.

* Larry submitted clang-format build target. No one has tried it out
  yet.  A good time to run a massive reformatting is when the repo
  reorg happens.
