# 8/16/2019

### Attendees:

* Joseph Goldstone
* Larry Gritz
* Nick Porcino
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Kimball Thurston

### Agenda:

* Release 2.4.0
* Other items

### Discussion

* Release 2.4.0

  * Waiting to branch until we have all 3 platforms (mostly) running in Azure.

  * Christina will be re-enabling the windows builds this weekend,
    others to help resolve issues

  * Nick also to separately test on local test setups to evaluate
    python2 and 3 under windows at the same time

* Other items:

  * Brief discussion about whether we need to discuss any future things:

    * mostly focused on getting patch release out

  * What are the ideas? Joseph was wondering if there is already a
    list (we should publicize that)

    * mentioned the pending discussion of Imath

    * also mentioned ph's metadata group thing

      * this triggered jgoldstone to ask for reviewers for the ACES
        container, it is up for 5 year renewal, want to refresh
        metadata list

    * larger database of metadata vs definition

  * Can we refresh the test content? (i.e. get some scenes with more
    HDR than the existing set, etc.)

  * Nick wondering what about other exr viewers, and about CTL status in viewers


