
# 6/13/2019

### Attending: 
* Cary Phillips - ILM
* Larry Gritz - SPI
* Rod Bogart - Epic
* Peter Hillman - Weta
* Kimball Thurston - Weta
* Nick Porcino - Oculus
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz - Epic
* John Mertic - Linux Foundation

### Discussion:
* Welcome new TSC members:
   * Nick Porcino - Oculus
   * Christina Tempelaar-Lietz - Epic
   * Kimball Thurston - Weta
   * Piotr was invited by hasn’t responded. 
* Project goals by SIGGRAPH:
   * Reach “adopted” status, seems attainable.
      * CII badge progress is at 68%
      * Need CI setup
      * Need static/dynamic analysis setup
      * Need to address security issues/policies
   * Put out a new release, version 2.4:
      * Address outstanding CVE’s
      * Document existing CVE’s
      * Compiler warnings
      * CMake fixes
   * Acknowledge most Issues and PRs; many can be closed as is.
   * Proposal/position on the future of Imath; go into the BOF prepared to discuss.
* “Guide to the OpenEXR Project”
   * GOVERNANCE.md, CONTRIBUTING.md, etc.
   * Clarify project roles and clarify terminology:
      * Committer vs. TSC
         * Nick Rasmussen is an example of a committer not on the TSC.
         * Need to clarify terms of service, how long do TSC members serve.
      * OCIO meeting notes designate a PR Reviewer?
         * Ad-hoc for that project to ensure fast turn around due to large number of contributions
         * May want some form of this to ensure that PRs are reviewed
* Legal:
   * Who keeps track of CLA’s on file?
      * Should just be part of the process (CLA, DCO checks)
      * Old PRs, what to do about obtaining CLAs prior to merge
      * Need to check w/ ILM legal just to clarify old copyright / CLA
   * Does OCIO have a policy of accepting small fixes without a CLA? No, that’s OIIO. All ASWF/Linux Foundation projects require CLA’s for every PR, no matter how small.
* CII Badge requires “acknowledgment of bug reports”. What should our policy be?
   * Standard use of GitHub labels, documented in CONTRIBUTING.
   * Use of GitHub Milestones to indicate priority.
* Status of the CII Best Practices Badge:
   * Must ensure timely response to posts on openexr-dev
   * What does it take to ensure that the website now uses https?
   * Security: 
      * security@openexr.com, info@openexr.com
         * John to arrange setting up the forwards to private tsc
      * Outstanding CVE’s:
         * One has a PR that needs to be merged.
         * Other CVE issues have been resolved but the issues were never closed.
         * CVE’s should be documented in CHANGES.md.
      * OpenEXR needs a designated security expert
      * Cryptographic protocols are not applicable.
   * Ready to set up Azure?
   * Compiler Warning flags
      * -Wall with GCC 7/C++17 on Ubuntu gives a handful of warnings, straightforward to fix.
      * What about Windows?
   * Code coverage, static analysis, dynamic analysis: SonarCloud?
      * Just needs to have been done at least prior to release (as opposed to fully integrated to release schedule)
   * Test policy adherence?
* Should we update source code copyright notices?
   * Cary will check with Lucasfilm Business Affairs.
* What’s the status of moving the github repository?
* TODO’s and action items:
   * Label issues and PR’s
      * Gives perception of response
      * Use milestones instead to mark issues for including in next release
      * Need to be more aggressive with closing issues that had a back and forth resulting in a consensus there’s nothing to do
         * Standard comment about a house-cleaning event in migration to ASWF
   * Merge/act on existing PR’s
   * Fix compiler warnings
   * SonarCloud: Static and dynamic analysis
   * Azure
   * Web site/documentation
      * JM: Can be moved independently, whenever ready
      * CP: wants to re-do web site to make it easier to maintain
   * Email addresses for info & security
   * Imath white paper
   * Christina - will work on SonarCloud
   * Kimball - will work on PRs, cmake, compile warnings
   * Nick - will review PRs as well
