# 4/23/2020

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Eskil Steenburg
* John Mertic
* Kimball Thurston
* Larry Gritz
* Peter Hillman

### Discussion:

* pgados has submitted a PR that patches the recent CVE fixes into the
  2.2 release, in order to patch an older SuSE enterprise distro that
  uses 2.2.1. This is fine to merge, pending the CLA.

* We will aim for a 2.5 release sometime next week. Cary will send an
  announcement to openexr-dev shortly. We will make the 2.2.2 and 2.5
  releases at the same time, with 2.2.2 first quickly followed by 2.5,
  so that people don't misinterpret 2.2.2 is the most recent release.

* Reviewed logo designed. We liked the one with the overlapping
  trapezoids (layered rectangles in perspective), but suggest that the
  text should emphasize "EXR" and de-emphasize "Open". Also,
  experiment with red, green, and blue rectangles, subject to what the
  transparency might look like.

* Discussed Google Summer of Code project proposals. We've made our case
  for an OpenEXR project but will need to negotiate with the other
  ASWF projects.

* Larry says the OIIO CI script pulls from the top of OpenEXR master
  branch, so that is at least one test for an external build, and that
  code version also goes through the OIIO test suite.

* Emily Olin proposes that the ASWF Open Source Day and project BoF's
  go fully virtual this year regardless of whether SIGGRAPH is
  in-person or virtual. We agree that we an host a Zoom-like community
  gathering to provide a project update and solicit discussion
  topics. We should be able to manage an effective virtual exchange.

* Christina will shift gears on the CI failure and port the setup to
  GitHub Actions first, then hopefully in the process determine why
  the macOS build is failing. The build is failing to find the iex.so
  module, presumably because of a pathing problem.

