# 5/21/2020

### Attending:

* Arkell Rasiah
* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Eskil Steenburg
* Joseph Goldstone
* Kimball Thurston
* Larry Gritz
* Nick Porcino
* Owen Thompson
* Peter Hillman
* Rod Bogart
* Phil Ames
* Abishek Arya

### Discussion:

* Arkell will investigate updating open-exr images over the
  summer. Will also reach out to Florian to see if he’s interested in
  providing some test images.

* Arkell raised a concern about images in the
  openexr-images/Chromaticities folder. Should the Rec709.exr and
  XYY.exr appear the same? Aren’t the chromaticies the same? Rv
  inherently adapts with a bradford transformation. Was the XYX made
  with the wrong adaptation matrix?

* Phil Ames and Abishek Arya from the Google AutoFuzz team joined to
  discuss the OSS-Fuzz service.

  * Phil is on the information security team. The team fuzzes a lot of
    open source projects, especially file formats.

  * Abishek leads the OSS-Fuzz development effort.

  * The goal is to make fuzzing really simple, simplifying workflow as
    much as possible.

  * Integrated with 300 projects (e.g. OpenSSL)

  * They used to manually reproduce and file bugs, but that doesn’t
    scale, so the process has been automated.

  * Lots of work has been done to de-duplicate bugs by comparing
    stackframes.

  * OSS-Fuzz focuses on making bugs reproducible. Otherwise they aren’t
    filed.

  * Most of the integration can be done in < 100 LOC.

  * Vendors can sign up to be notified when bugs are detected.

  * Security bugs are restricted for 90 days.

  * Bugs are closed automatically when a fix is checked in.

  * It’s using the existing IlmImfFuzzTest. Will need to break it up
    into smaller tests.

  * OSS-Fuzz instrument with many sanitizers, on many cores.

  * What happens if something is discovered that’s in code that doesn’t
    matter (documentation generation code)? We control that, since it’s
    our code that runs the fuzzers.

  * There’s a CI option: on every PR it does 5 minutes of fuzz.

  * OSS-Fuzz doesn’t file CVE’s.

  * Example integration setup PR, for the tinyexr project:
    https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz/pull/3801/files

* Larry pointed out the recent Autodesk maya file security issue:

  https://www.autodesk.com/trust/security-advisories/adsk-sa-2020-0003

* We also want to run the sanitizer against the regular tests, as well
  as against the fuzz tests.

* Owen shared the Imath project task spreadsheet:
  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rC_USR4lLXVUTyAG62gOG-uJlxzRguMNTlMYYf2rUrQ/edit?usp=sharing

* Christina reports that Azure Pipelines is completely retired, all
  migrated to GitHub Actions. One remaining issue with the Windows
  build, but everything seems to be working properly.

