# 6/4/2020

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Eskil Steenburg
* John Mertic
* Joseph Goldstone
* Kimball Thurston
* Larry Gritz
* Nick Porcino
* Owen Thompson
* Peter Hillman
* Rod Bogart

### Discussion:

* John Mertic revives the discussion of the logo design: 

  * Larry referenced https://landscape.aswf.io. Some look great small, some do not.
  * The concept was to demostratine dynamic range in the layers.
  * The original idea was that the logo could appear as an icon on a camera.
  * Eskil: Think of the original photo by Debevec with same image at different stops.
  * Nick: The most important feature is dynamic range; Nick proposes a
    drawing that includes and image ad different exposure levels:
    night, day, sun.
  * Could also illustrate "multipart."
  * Rod: Should not look like photoshop layers.
  * Could look like an image coming apart.
  * Could show channels vs. some other multi-dimensional.
  * Needs to be easy to reproduce (t-shirts, etc).
  * Could be an element that’s a response curve, except that exr is linear(?)
  * Logos should be clear: NASA has a continuum of logos.
  * Cmake has really simple logo, has nothing to do with.
  * John will invite the LF graphic designer next time.
  * After the meeting, watch this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pnv5iKB2hl4

* Imath repo project:

  * Revision history can be done later
  * Need to resolve the handling of exceptions ASAP. 
    * Consider the new C++11 exception system categories feature, although that's mroe for OpenEXR itself.
    * Imath deals mostly with math-specific exceptions.
    * Nick: I ported a lot of Occulus’s code but comparisons don’t work across boundaries.
  * IlmThread stays behind in OpenEXR.
  * PyIlmBase goes to a new repo.
  * Autotools? Leave it behind; if someone objects, we can bring it in later if needed.
  * OpenEXR should encorporate Imath as a Git submodule. We’re
    creating proper “find” cmake files; if it finds it, it’ll use it,
    if not, it’ll build it.
  * Nick: I tend to write shell scripts to handle all this stuff; I can put together a Gist to illustrate. 
  * Or, just build the dependency first? 

* Christina: need Kimball to check her latest PR.

