# 4/16/2020

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Peter Hillman
* Larry Gritz
* Kimball Thurston
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Joseph Goldstone
* John Mertic

### Discussion:

* More pandemic stories.

* TSC meeting cadence will change to bi-weekly, 1:30pm PST Thursdays,
  since the OSL TSC meeting is 2pm biweekly.

* John will get the LF design team to draft some logo options. We like
  the idea that the logo should be simple enough to appear on a
  camera, as was the original intention, even if that's not likely to
  actually happen. It's still a good principle to follow. Also, the
  letters "EXR" would be appropriate because that's the file suffix.

* Discussed Google Summer of Code project proposals. We'll request 2
  slots. Cary communicated with one candidate by email. Peter will
  follow up with one of the candidates to assess interest and skills.

* Christina will look into the Azure build failures this weekend. It's
  mysterious because it was working and nothing appears to have
  changed. It doesn't seem to involve any of the recent PR's.

