# 02/06/2020

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Peter Hillman
* Larry Gritz
* Joseph Goldstone
* Kimball Thurston
* Eskil Steenburg

### Discussion:

* The 2.4.1 release should include only essential bug fixes. Defer
  everything else to the next minor release.

* Peter will merge recent fixes into the RB-2.4 branch via cherry
  picking commits. Kimball will look into any cmake changes. Cary will
  prepare the release notes.

* We'll shoot for making the release Monday or Tuesday of next week. 

* Cary proposes a new label/milestone scheme. Labels will indicate
  **what** an issue is (Feature Request, Enhancement, Question, Bug,
  etc), as well as its **status** (Needs Discussion, Awaiting
  Feedback, etc). Milestones will indicate **when** an issue is likely
  to be addressed (Next Patch Release, Next Minor Release, Next Major
  Release, Backlog, etc).

* Briefly discussed #650, Arkell's fix for chromaticity
  conversion. Joseph agreed to investigate.

* Christina will follow up on the Azure build failures and why the
  SonarCloud runs don't include coverage reports.

* Christina reported from the ASWF TAC CI meeting that the ASWF
  intends to migrate from Azure to GitHub Actions.

* Our Google Summer of Code projects ideas are in. Notification of
  accepted organizations is around Feb 20.



