# 8/13/2020

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Joseph Goldstone
* Kimball Thurston
* Nick Porcino
* Owen Thompson
* Peter Hillman
* Rod Bogart
* Arkell Rasiah
* Eskill Steenberg

### Discussion:

* Review of slides for Open Source Day. Discussion of the order of
  topics, slide contents. Need to confirm how Q&A works with the Zoom
  Webinar. Christina will monitor the chat and read the questions. If
  there are answers in chat, read them too. Will schedule a tech
  check/walk-through on Monday.

* The tree for the Imath repo should be:

    src
    ├── lib
    │   ├── Half
    │   └── Imath
    ├── python
    │   ├── PyImath
    │   └── PyImathNumPy
    └── test
        ├── HalfTest
        ├── ImathTest
        └── python
            ├── PyImathNumpyTest
            ├── PyImathSpeedTest
            └── PyImathTest
        
* Eskil presented his proposal for a C implementation of ACES
  spec. Joseph: ACES Central would be a good place for this.  ILM’s
  feeling from the beginning was that the code should be the spec, so
  there has never been an independent published specification.

* Arkell: review some new imagery for the openexr-images repo. Will
  submit them via a PR.

* Owen: This is my 2nd-to-last meeting as GSoC internl. I appreciate
  everyone’s help. No plans after this. Looking for a job, please
  contact me with any leads.
