# 4/2/2020

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Peter Hillman
* Larry Gritz
* Kimball Thurston
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Rod Bogart
* Joseph Goldstone
* Nick Porcino
* John Mertic
* Sarah Martin

### Discussion:

* Various pandemic stories.

* Google Summer of Code project proposals, ranked in order of preference:

  1. Owen Thompson, Motion Picture Science student at Rochester
  Institute of Technology. Proposal to split Imath into a separate
  repo. The proposal is well-written, communication skills appear
  good. Trial PR was implementation of Matrix22.

  2. Jaroslav Paska, student at University of Glasgow. Proposal is to
  benchmark compression schemes and potentially implement new
  compression schemes. Proposal is well-written, communication skill
  appear good. Trial PR was correcting a typo in a comment.  Proposed
  project is potentially useful, but dependent on gathering the right
  imagery to benchmark, which could be tricky.

  3. Archit, student at National Institute of Technology Goa,
  India. Proposal is pybind11 bindings for Imath. Trial PR is a
  correcting a grammar mistake. Proposed project is otentially risky;
  no indication there is prior experience with pybind11, which could
  be challenging.

* Sarah Martin presented mockups of a new look for openexr.com
  website. We preferred the one with obviously high-dynamic range
  image, a relatively small banner across the top. We expressed a
  preference for a "dark" mode style.

* Rod will look for information about the original OpenEXR logo design.

* Cary will follow up with John Mertic about Linux Foundation graphic
  design services for a new logo.

* #668 - Cary will respond with "won't fix."
