# 2/25/2021

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Joseph Goldstone
* Kimball Thurston
* Larry Gritz
* Nick Porcino
* Peter Hillman

### Discussion:

* Larry: sorting out issues with identifying dependencies when you
  have more than one version of a library installed on a system. Our
  CI doesn't test this case. If OpenEXR is installed in /usr/include
  but you want to use another one, it's not getting the -I's in the
  right order. 

* Interop constructors:

  * Larry: I have a custom vector class that is already partially
    aware of Imath classes that's leading to compilation problems. Can
    probably get right of the old conversion constructs.

  * Nick: I just finished stripping out the last Eigen.

  * Larry: would like to test with MaterialX. They’re so far down
    their road that we probably can’t convince them to use Imath.  But
    interop would be nice.

* CLA's:

  * Christina: Epic is still in progress.

  * Kimball: Weta approval meeting is happening soon.

  * Joseph: No word from ARRI.

* Symbol visibility:

  * Kimball: GitHub did something weird in rebasing/merging #868.
  
  * Linux is fine, Windows is fine, but macOS is not because it uses a
    different kind of multi-level symbol management. Not just clang,
    it’s specific to macOS.

  * Nick: Let's discuss with George ElKoura about what they did for USD.

  * Kimball: We should make the change in Imath. It's the Vec2,3,4 and
    Matrix classes that are the real issue.

* Nick: still tripped up on the Windows install directory problem.  If
  you specify an install directory, Imath libraries don’t go to the
  right place, they try to go to C:\Program FIles (x86)\Imath which is
  a cmake-ism for default installations, as opposed to a generally
  accepted best practice, in my opinion.

* Nick: will look at the multiple python bindings.

* Include path:

  * The modern "correct" thing to do is to #include <subdir/header.h>
    but most use of OpenEXR has never done this.
  
  * But at least the OpenEXR headers have Imf/Imath prefix strings, so
    it hasn't been a problem to install them in one directory.
  
  * Proposed fix: include -I for both include *and* include/OpenEXR.
