# 1/28/2021

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Joseph Goldstone
* Kimball Thurston
* Larry Gritz
* Nick Porcino
* Peter Hillman

### Discussion:

* Google Summer of Code:

  * Suggestion: PyBind11 for imath and openexr.

  * Rust: Kimball:: I’m doing the C layer so it’s easy to bind
    against. The ASWF working group is potentially making tooling to
    make it easier to do binding, but the repo will be for us. Might
    find a student who’s into rust.

  * Part of Alembic’s bindings uses the PyImath bindings.

  * Would be nice to see first-class python bindings for openexr.

  * ffmpeg exr encoder/decoder use the C layer. But ffmpeg is
    super-particular about everything. They want C code.

  * Put GSoC project proposals on a Wiki page

* Joseph: Have you ever dealt with content that was acquired by a
  camera where the view plane is not perpendicular to the viewing
  axis?  Has consequences for focal distance. Perfect shouldnt’ be the
  enemy of the good here? Anyone who does this would know the math
  already. 

* Kimball: Nvidia has been playing around with the C branch.

* 2.5.5 release is ready.

* #91 Interoperability constructors 

  * Larry: Error messages are not helpful. Some people’s vector
    classes look like array’s, some are like structs.
  
* #909 Add idmanifest attribute support

  * From DigiPro presentation. Has been production tested at Weta.
  
  * How does it relate to cryptomatte? It’s designed to work with
    cryptomattte encoding scheme. Two issues:

    1. how you put the numbers in the image,

    2. how you associate names with numbers.

  * Including it in the library would encourage standardizations.
  
* #898 Add support for Bazel

  * Agree to accept, expecting @vertexwahn to provide the support.
  
  * Should make an entry in the CI to build with Bazel.

* #868 Make the default symbol visibility hidden for unixen builds

  * Kimball: Looked at it, but hadn’t patched it up yet. I’ll do that
    this weekend.

