# 1/28/2021

### Attending:

* Cary Phillips
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz
* Eskil Steenburg
* Joseph Goldstone
* Kimball Thurston
* Larry Gritz
* Nick Porcino
* Peter Hillman
* Simran Spiller 

### Discussion:


Weta: Bob the builder. A way of applying changesets.
Larry: Ryan Botriel’s presentation to the CI working group. Sony’s.
Separate libraries?


* Half constexpr

  * Larry's PR #82 is the first of two, just cleans up limits. Larry:
    a result of going down a rathole adding constexpr everywhere possible.

  * Cary: This changes the value of HALF_MIN. Now that there's
    HALF_NRM_MIN and HALF_DENRM_MIN, better to remove HALF_MIN
    altogether.

  * Should we look at what the upcoming C++ standard says? No point.
  
  * The half-to-float and float-to-half conversions can’t be constexpr
    because they use the lookup tables. And the arithmetic operators
    convert to float, so they can.

  * The intrinsic conversion instructions aren’t constexpr either, for
    some reason.

* Doxygen

  * Cary: Doxygen changes touched every line of every file.
  
  * The documentation configuration uses Doxygen/Breathe/Sphinx.
  
  * Work-in-progress readthedocs page: https://cary-ilm-imath.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

  * Larry: Merge the doxygen PR first, I'll then merge the limits PR,
    then submit the second PR with the rest of the constexpr changes.
  
  * Larry: we can finesse it later.

* Larry: one other Vec change that I'd like to get in: a way of
  interpreting any storage block as a Vec2/Vec3/Vec4.
  
* Revisit the proposed changes to Vec storage, to use a union and
  avoid the &x in the index operator. Should we? Cary: I think it
  makes the code hard to read. Kimball: Not really.
  
* 3.0 Porting guide: still in progress.

* Harsh Patel/Apple optimization: Optimization potential for
  readChunkOffsetTables for MultiPartInput files: Kimball's core
  rewrite makes this obsolete. Improved threading comes with the new core.

* #885 Resolve #882 static/shared dual build

  * Nick: Working on the CLA, not sure why it isn't working.
  
* #880 Add optional standard attributes defined in SMPTE ST 2065-4:2013

  * Joseph: Arri legal is still considering it, haven't signed off yet. 

  * We have deadline to get approval.

* #877 ImfCompressor: use STATIC_HUFFMAN for tiled DWAB files (fix #344)

  * Peter's new test now tests this. The CI hasn't run on this PR
    since the test was added.  Let's just merge the PR and fix it if
    it breaks.

* #868 Make the default symbol visibility hidden for unixen builds

  * Kimball will clean it up.

