Additional IP Rights Grant (Patents) "DreamWorks Lossy Compression" means the
copyrightable works distributed by DreamWorks Animation as part of the OpenEXR
Project. Within the OpenEXR project, DreamWorks Animation hereby grants to you
a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable 
(except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, 
import, sell products which incorporate this IP as part of the OpenEXR 
standard, transfer, and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of 
this implementation of DreamWorks Lossy Compression within the OpenEXR standard,
where such license applies only to those patent claims, both currently owned by 
DreamWorks Animation and acquired in the future, licensable by DreamWorks
Animation that are necessarily infringed by this implementation of DreamWorks 
Lossy Compression. This grant does not include use of DreamWorks Lossy 
Compression outside of the OpenEXR standard. This grant does not include claims
that would be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of this 
implementation. If you or your agent or exclusive licensee institute or order 
or agree to the institution of patent litigation against any entity (including
a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that this implementation 
of DreamWorks Lossy Compression or any code incorporated within this 
implementation of DreamWorks Lossy Compression constitutes direct or 
contributory patent infringement, or inducement of patent infringement, then 
any patent rights granted to you under this License for this implementation 
of DreamWorks Lossy Compression shall terminate as of the date such litigation
is filed.
